In this section, you will learn about
combining information from multiple planes
into a single hash value.
In the last video, you saw how by
the sign of the dot product between
the normal vector of a plane and
a vector representing your data,
you could get a relative
position relative to that plane.
In this lecture, I'm going to show
you how to use this information for
multiple planes to get a hash value for
your data in your vector space.
In order to divide your vector
space into manageable regions,
you'll want to use more than one plane.
For each plane, you can find out
whether a vector is on the positive or
negative side of that plane.
So you'll get multiple signals,
one for each plane and
you want to find a way to combine all of
those signals into a single hash value.
This has value will define a particular
region within the vector space.
Let's walk through an example.
Then you will see the general formula for
combining signals from multiple planes.
So for a single vector, let's say that
it's dot product with plane 1 is 3,
so the sign is positive, and
the hash value is set to 1 to
indicate that the sign is positive.
For the second plane,
the dot product is 5, so
the sign is again positive and
the hash value is 1.
For the third plane,
the dot product is -2, so
the sign is -1 and the hash value
is set to 0 to Iindicate that
the vector v is on
the negative side of plane 3.
To combine these intermediates hash
values into a single hash value,
you'll do the following.
Take 2 to the power of 0
times h1 + 2 to the power of
1 times h2 + 2 to the power of 2 times h3,
it gives us a combined hash value of 3.
So just as a reminder you
have multiple planes and
it helps us to divide the vector
space into smaller sub regions.
But you want to have a single hash value,
so
you will know which bucket
to assign the vectoring.
You do this by combining the signals from
all the planes into a single hash value.
Here are the rules you applied written
out, if the sign of the dot product
is greater than or equal to 0,
assign the intermediate has value of 1.
Otherwise if the dot
product is less than 0,
assign the intermediate hash value of 0.
To combine the intermediate as values,
use this formula,
this is how you get
locality sensitive hashing.
Let's implement this in code.
Given a list of planes and vector,
starts with a hash_value of 0,
which you'll use to accumulate
the sum of intermediate hash values.
Then for each plane, you want to
calculate the sign of the dot product.
Set the intermediate hash_value to 1 if
the sign is greater than or equal to 0.
I'll set it to 0 then you multiply
the intermediate add value by
2 raised to the 8th power and
added to the hash_value.
Finally, you return the hash_value.
So if you run code in
the lecture notes book,
you'll get the same results as the example
you saw earlier, go ahead and try it out.
>> Now you have seen what it means for
a hash function to be locality sensitive,
and examples of such hash functions.
Next, you will see how this is useful for
speeding up the k-nearest
neighbor computation.
Let's go to the next video.